# Is minimalism a meme?

Nowadays, we see a lot of people going for the *minimalism* meme, having a bare minimum setup on their computers but then asking some stupid questions lik "How do I install a patch on dwm?". Fortunately, this is not the case for everyone and there are still people who really took the right essence out of it. Some people think that the minimalism is just about having the less features possible on your programs and they probably just make their everyday life a lot harder because of that.

IMHO, minimalism is a kind of tradeoff between the essential features of a program and your personal user experience. This does not only apply on computers, but to the everyday life as well. You cannot go to the bare minimum if you are not prepared and don't know what you're doing. I will make an example with my journey into minimalism.

Years ago I was using Windows as my everyday OS. I tried Ubuntu in a virtual machine and I liked it very much, but couldn't leave what I was used to. Then, for working purposes, I had to use a Mac and this started to change my use of the computer. I started using more and more the terminal, open source programs and I also installed a tiling window manager (I think it is called Chunkwm). I really loved the possibility to do (almost) everything with just some keyboard combinations and I wanted more of this. Therefore, I started to inform myself and realized there are a lot of tiling window managers for Linux and I took my Windows computer back and installed Ubuntu. I remember that I absolutely wanted to have the i3 wm with gaps but it was a pain in the ass to install it. So, I decided to try with Debian but it didn't go better. In that period of my life I was starting to watch videos about Linux made by [Luke Smith](https://lukesmith.xyz/), who had Arch linux installed on his computer. Since I had all of my stuff on my Mac, I decided to give it a try on my other laptop with Windows. It was really hard at the beginning but it was so satisfactory to install it that it totally paid off the time spent on it. I remember that some nights I couldn't fall asleep because I wanted to learn more and configure it as I wanted. This started my passion about Linux, open source software and the ability to make my laptop as I really want.

After the i3 wm, I tried bspwm, awesome and dwm, everyone with its pros and cons. But there was something in dwm that really took my attention and I started using it regularly. What I really like is that it comes with the bare minimum to work as a tiling wm, with the possibility to patch it with just what you want, and doesn't have some useless extra features that I never used in the other wms. Moreover, it is written in C in less than 2000 lines of code, it requires some time to read it but after that you can change it to perfectly fit your needs.

This example took more than I expected but what I want to say is that *minimalism</i> is something that you achieve with time, and the way you go for it certainly differs from mine and from everyone else's. And more important, it is about finding a tradeoff which best fits your needs rather than finding one which goes as low as possible. It also depends on the way you use your computer and the programs you daily use. So, stop going minimal if you don't know what you do and especially if it makes your life harder.

;tags: linux
